NAME
    Plack - Perl Superglue for Web frameworks and Web Servers (PSGI toolkit)

DESCRIPTION
    Plack is a set of tools for using PSGI stack. It contains middleware
    components, a reference server and utilities for Web application
    frameworks. Plack is like Ruby's Rack or Python's Paste for WSGI.

    See PSGI for the PSGI specification and PSGI::FAQ to know what PSGI and
    Plack are and why we need them.

MODULES AND UTILITIES
  Plack::Handler
    Plack::Handler and its subclasses contains adapters for web servers. We
    have adapters for Standalone, CGI, FCGI, Apache, AnyEvent, Coro,
    Danga::Socket and many server environments that you can run PSGI
    applications on.

    See Plack::Handler how to write your own adapters.

  Plack::Loader
    Plack::Loader is a loader to load one of Plack::Server adapters and run
    PSGI application code reference with it.

  Plack::Util
    Plack::Util contains a lot of utility functions for server implementors
    as well as middleware authors.

  .psgi files
    PSGI application is a code reference but it's not easy to pass code
    reference in the command line or configuration files, so Plack uses a
    convention that you need a file named "app.psgi" or alike, which would
    be loaded (via perl's core function "do") to return the PSGI application
    code reference.

      # Hello.psgi
      my $app = sub {
          my $env = shift;
          # ...
          return [ $status, $headers, $body ];
      };

    If you use a web framework, chances are that they provide a helper
    utility to automatically generate these ".psgi" files for you, such as:

      # MyApp.psgi
      use MyApp;
      my $app = sub { MyApp->run_psgi(@_) };

    It's important that the return value of ".psgi" file is the code
    reference. See eg/dot-psgi directory for more examples of ".psgi" files.

  plackup, Plack::Runner
    plackup is a command line launcher to run PSGI applications from command
    line using Plack::Loader to load PSGI backends. It can be used to run
    standalone servers and FastCGI daemon processes. Other server backends
    like Apache2 needs a separate configuration but ".psgi" application file
    can still be the same.

    If you want to write your own frontend that replaces, or adds
    functionalities to plackup, take a look at Plack::Runner module.

  Plack::Middleware
    PSGI middleware is a PSGI application that wraps existent PSGI
    application and plays both side of application and servers. From the
    servers the wrapped code reference still looks like and behaves exactly
    the same as PSGI applications.

    Plack::Middleware gives you an easy way to wrap PSGI applications with a
    clean API, and compatibility with Plack::Builder DSL.

  Plack::Builder
    Plack::Builder gives you a DSL that you can enable Middleware in ".psgi"
    files to wrap existent PSGI applications.

  Plack::Request, Plack::Response
    Plack::Request gives you a nice wrapper API around PSGI $env hash to get
    headers, cookies and query parameters much like Apache::Request in
    mod_perl.

    Plack::Response does the same to construct the response array reference.

  Plack::Test
    Plack::Test is an unified interface to test your PSGI application using
    standard HTTP::Request and HTTP::Response pair with simple callbacks.

  Plack::Test::Suite
    Plack::Test::Suite is a test suite to test a new PSGI server backend.

CONTRIBUTING
  Patches and Bug Fixes
    Small patches and bug fixes can be either submitted via nopaste on IRC
    <irc://irc.perl.org/#plack> or email. You could also fork on github
    (http://github.com/miyagawa/Plack) to make larger fixes.

  Module Namespaces
    Modules added to the Plack:: sub-namespaces should be reasonably generic
    components which are useful as building blocks and not just simply using
    Plack.

    Middleware authors are free to use the Plack::Middleware:: namespace for
    their middleware components. Middleware must be written in the pipeline
    style such that they can chained together with other middleware
    components. The Plack::Middleware:: modules in the core distribution are
    good examples of such modules. It is recommended that you inherit from
    Plack::Middleware for these types of modules.

    Not all middleware components are wrappers, but instead are more like
    endpoints in a middleware chain. These types of components should use
    the Plack::App:: namespace. Again, look in the core modules to see
    excellent examples of these (Plack::App::File, Plack::App::Directory,
    etc.). It is recommended that you inherit from Plack::Component for
    these types of modules.

    DO NOT USE Plack:: namespace to build a new web application or a
    framework. It's like naming your application under CGI:: namespace if
    it's supposed to run on CGI and that is a really bad choice and confuse
    people.

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright 2009- Tatsuhiko Miyagawa

AUTHOR
    Tatsuhiko Miyagawa

CONTRIBUTORS
    Yuval Kogman (nothingmuch)

    Tokuhiro Matsuno (tokuhirom)

    Kazuhiro Osawa (Yappo)

    Kzzuho Oku

    Florian Ragwitz (rafl)

    Chia-liang Kao (clkao)

    Masahiro Honma (hiratara)

    Daisuke Murase (typester)

    John Beppu

    Matt S Trout (mst)

    Shawn M Moore (Sartak)

    Stevan Little

    Hans Dieter Pearcey (confound)

    Tomas Doran (t0m)

    mala

    Mark Stosberg

    Aaron Trevena

SEE ALSO
    PSGI <http://plackperl.org/>

LICENSE
    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the same terms as Perl itself.

